# 10 Showcases: New Ways of Digital Publishing

Digital publishing is a mature industry now. E-books, games, music, long
video streaming, and short clips are all very common and widely accepted
by mainstream authors and consumers.

The below two examples show how the BNB Greenfield ecosystem can help
this sector.

## 10.1 Grass-root Digital Publishing

Without mentioning Professional publishing, even some amateur publishing
can be very formal and cumbersome. For some grass-root creators or
authors, their works are long-tail in the eyes of traditional or even
internet-based publishers and not worth covering.

With Greenfield and BSC, any amateur authors can store their works on
Greenfield and mirror them onto BSC. They can sell the works on a market
on BSC, and the market can automatically grant the read permissions to
the buyer addresses after they pay. The authors do not need to talk with
any publisher, but only perform a few clicks on the dApp and manage
their (small) community.

## 10.2 Data Market

This is very similar to the digital publishing market. But it extends to
any type of data besides digital arts, such as historical statistics for
certain domains, any scientific experiment data, etc.

With Greenfield, some NFT-based markets on BSC can become an "Ebay" of
data.

## 10.3 Risk: Anti-Piracy

The current design of Greenfield has no anti-piracy purpose with it at
all. Once the address gets the read permission, they can download the
data and circulate it to anyone for profit or for non-profit if they do
not obey the rules. Some of the DRM mechanisms can still work, but many
will not.

However, as a public and decentralized infrastructure, it naturally
provides an auditable history for the data, with content, signature,
timestamps, and checksums. It helps a lot to provide evidence for the
copyright dispute.

Authors, publishers, and dApps should be aware of these limitations and
choose to use them at their own risk for now. More copyright-related
features may be introduced to Greenfield with the help of the community.
