# 11 Showcases: User-Generated Content

## 11.1 Anti-Monopoly and Anti-Censorship

There is one job that benefits the most from the development of Social
Media: Key Opinion Leaders, a.k.a KOLs. They publish opinions, articles,
videos, and music works that please, influence and inspire people. KOLs
create their own fandom and can make their fortune by using the
attention and traffic of their fans.

However, there is an Achilles' heel for these KoLs: they cannot own
their data and fan relationship if the platforms do not allow them to.
We all know that you cannot change this, even if you are the president
of the most powerful country in the world.

BNB Greenfield provides a convenient infrastructure to make the data
fully owned by the creators. Meanwhile, dApps can still use such data,
publish it to the public audience and maintain the social network. What
is more, even the fandom relationship or social network graph can be
saved on Greenfield as a type of data owned by the users. There is no
single firm here that can block data access. The dApps just provide
convenient UIs and toolings to facilitate information creation and
propagation.

Another big advantage of Greenfield is that it makes it easy to create
private fandoms by using the group features. For example, a KOL can
create a special group for a special fandom. This group can be only
operated by a smart contract on BSC and only allow addresses to join
based on special credentials, such as holding a certain token or paying
a subscription fee. These are all easy to implement with Greenfield.

## 11.2 Token Curated Registries

[Token Curated
Registries](https://hackernoon.com/what-are-token-curated-registries-and-decentralized-lists-d33fa42ba167)
were widely discussed and researched in 2018. But it didn't gain much
recognition in the real use cases. One of the reasons may be that it is
difficult and expensive to save the different lists and credibly present
them.

BNB Greenfield provides a perfect solution for token-curated lists. A
smart contract on BSC can bear the full governance and incentive logic
of the registration, and meanwhile owns the rights to create objects of
each list under the designated bucket for the business. The list of
objects and fully tracked change history are priceless functions for
such decentralized voting and governance ideas.
