# 23 SP APIs

SP should provide plenty of APIs to facilitate users to look up
information, download the objects, recover the data, and send
transactions onto the Greenfield blockchain. This section will be
extended as time goes on.

All SPs should provide APIs listed in this section.

## 23.1 Universal Endpoint

### 23.1.1 URI standard

All objects can be identified and accessed via a universal path:

*gnfd://\<bucket_name\>/\[prefix\]/\<other prefixes\>\[0..n\]/object-id*

*where:*

- *"gnfd://" is the fixed leading identifier, which is mandatory*

- *bucket_name is the bucket name of the object, which is mandatory*

- *prefix and other prefixes are all prefixes defined for the object, which are optional*

- *object-id is the ID for the object, which is mandatory*

This path should be 1:1 mapped to an object.

### 23.1.2 HTTPS REST API

Each SP will register multiple endpoints to access their services, e.g.
"SP1" may ask their users to download objects via
[https://greenfield.sp1.com/download](https://greenfield.sp1.com/download).

The most important endpoint is the one for users to download objects. To
download an object, users can just substitute the "gnfd://" in the URI
standard with the SP endpoint. For example, to access
gnfd://mybucket/foo/bar/my-cool-object-id, users can just visit SP1 at
[https://greenfield/sp1.com/download/mybucket/foo/bar/my-cool-object-id](https://greenfield/sp1.com/download/mybucket/foo/bar/my-cool-object-id).

When SP1 receives the request to this path, SP1 should understand the
users want to download the object at
gnfd://mybucket/foo/bar/my-cool-object-id. SP1 should first get which SP
is the current primary SP of this object, if it's SP1 herself, SP1
should start sending the data to the user; otherwise, SP1 will send an
HTTP 302 to redirect the request to the primary SP's download endpoint.

### 23.1.3 P2P RPC

Please note that both Greenfield blockchain full nodes (including
validators) and SPs will provide P2P RPCs to access different data.

Greenfield blockchain full node RPC will be access points to read and
change the blockchain data, e.g. users can check the current block
height and validator set information, or send transactions to create a
bucket.

SP P2P RPCs are under a different P2P protocol mostly for data reading,
which is designed based on the BitTorrent protocol. Any client software
that wants to use this feature must build in this P2P protocol.

One thing to note is that Greenfield enforces permission and access
control so that the data forwarded to the P2P network should be
encrypted with the users' public keys.

## 23.2 List Operations

There are multiple operations related to "list" some information about
Greenfield. For example, list all objects under a bucket, list all the
members in a group or list all the objects associated with a payment
account. These operations are usually too heavy to be supported directly
via a Greenfield blockchain full node RPCs. Here SPs should provide
these functions via corresponding APIs so that the users have a better
experience to store, check, download, and manage the objects.
